So there are no Christian values in
modern liberalism. It's just an appeal
to a system.
>> Sure. But the system doesn't have to be.
So my argument basically say I don't
think that Christian uh rule should be
utilized as statecraft. I think
separation of church and state is one of
the most fundamentally important things
not just for a state but more so for a
Christian.
>> That's an claim. You agree?
>> Sure.
>> Okay. Were you driving that?
>> Uh from my faith.
>> So your faith tells you that Christians
should be liberal.
>> No. I said that the separation of church
and state.
>> So your Christian values tell you that
Christians should not be in charge of
states.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. And um do you think that
Christians who were in charge of states
before were wrong?
>> Yeah.
>> You do?
>> Mhm.
>> Okay. Which ones?
>> Um all the ones that came after Jesus
and did it.
>> So you you think that historically they
just got it all wrong?
>> Yeah. I think that like if you look for
example at like if you I mean we can get
into the typological argument here but
if you look at like all of the history
of the Bible for example um what we see
over time is when we go from the Old
Testament to New Testament and for those
cuz I'm not trying to do a pop quiz just
for those who are listening that don't
know what a typological it's just like a
type we're looking at types typically
from Old Testament to New Testament it's
a pretty standard like apologetics or a
theological argument that kids made. So
when you look for example through the
Old Testament, we have multiple periods
that I'm sure you would agree to.
Judges, kings, priests. Agreed?
>> Mhm.
>> Okay. So what we see is basically a
blending a high blending of of state
craft and faith that gets reduced over
time with the uh final answer of Jesus
who actually actively and aggressively
rejects statethood, rejects politics,
and rejects any kingmanship. In fact,
that's a large reason, not the only
reason, but a large reason why the Jews
felt that he was not the Messiah is
because they didn't see a physical
political kingdom unifying um the
northern and southern kingdoms.
>> Okay. So, back to the O claim,
Christians ought not
uh be in charge of governments and
government systems.
>> It depends on what you mean when you're
saying that.
>> Well, you said that uh that Christians
ought not do that, right? I don't think
that Christians should try to push for a
blending of church and state.
>> Okay. And does state need to be a
nation?
>> When I say state, I mean a nation.
>> So how come it's only at the n national
level?
>> Well, I it would be at the I guess when
I say so when I say nation, I guess I
should say governmental level. I don't
want uh and when I say this, I don't
mean that Christians can't be a
government official. Christians should
not impose Christian ethics into rule of
law. I have not I don't know. I don't
haven't thought about tribes.
>> But there's governments, right?
>> Not really. Not like meaningful.
>> Why is that not meaningful?
>> I would not say that anyone who's like a
political philosopher would look at a
tribe and call that a government.
Usually when we mean government, we mean
post the invention of the nation.
>> What about a nation city?
>> Yeah. Nation state.
>> That's not well
a nation city. Let's say
>> the city itself
>> if there's like a formalized Roman like
to some degree like if there's a
formalized actual government not just
like a tribe then sure potentially but
again I would need to know what we're
talking about here I need like more
specific examples
>> like you have a city that has 100,000
people in it
>> and they they have a government there
right that government should not
uh mix church and state
>> yeah they shouldn't rule with Christian
ethics as a thing that makes laws
>> okay What should they rule with?
>> Uh, consensus cuz I like democracy.
>> Consensus.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> And and more importantly, laws have to
be what works.
>> And what happens when the consensus says
kill babies?
>> Well, that would be against like what
works, right?
>> No.
>> Yeah. It's a nation is not going to work
very well if they kill other babies.
>> A nation would work just fine if they
kill other people's babies.
>> Uh, no. Cuz that nation would be then a
target for probably war, not just from
that nation, but probably neighboring
nations. cuz it seems like in general
most people have this emergent value of
not killing babies.
>> Okay. I don't understand. Let's say that
for like 100 years a nation kills every
third baby that comes up in the nation.
It's like overpop populated. So they
just take a rock and bash its [__]
brains in. I don't how China as an
example.
>> How's that not working?
>> Oh, it seems like it was really really
bad for China. It seems like it was
really bad for the fact that people
don't like seeing dead babies skewed
everywhere. Uh it seems like it crushed
their population.
>> As long as the nation though consents to
that. Well, it's not just about what the
nation consents to, right?
>> Yes. You said, and your exact words, I
wrote them down. They should rule via
consent because I like consent because I
like democracy.
>> Yeah. So, when I say rule by consent,
that doesn't mean that states craftmen
aren't imposing laws that are reasonable
and work, right? The law is about like
what makes a state work.
>> Yeah. But there's no contradiction in
how the state would not work if they
killed every third child.
>> How would that state logistically work?
I feel like that state
>> it would work fine. They used to do it
all the time. They used to sacrifice
children all the time inside of Rome,
inside of many states, and it worked
just fine.
>> Well, not really. Like I would Well, I
would argue a lot of the Where are Where
are those nation states?
>> They lasted a lot longer than America,
some of them.
>> Where are they?
>> Well, are you saying that? So, that's a
facious argument. You saying because
this didn't continue in perpetuity, that
means it didn't work. that I could just
say, well, don't you agree that America
as it exists right now is not going to
exist in perpetuity. Therefore, it
doesn't work
>> probably because there theoretically and
hopefully there'll be better systems
that emerge.
>> Okay, so then it doesn't work
>> uh by and large, no, not by what I mean.
>> What? Okay, so I just want to make sure.
>> So Rome didn't fall, right, just because
of one thing. But when we look at, for
example, a nation that kills every third
baby,
>> you grab me another beer while you're
up.
>> This probably wouldn't work for a number
of reasons. Number one, citizens don't
like killing their babies.
But if they did,
>> they don't.
>> Yeah. But if they did,
>> they don't. I don't.
>> what what what person enjoys killing
their babies?
>> Like a pagan nation, let's say,
>> I I would basically argue that they
don't enjoy killing their babies either.
Usually, like even when you look at
pagan nations where babies are killed,
right? Oftent times when you can find
evidence for it, the mother of that
child, for example, or the father of
that child are completely opposed to it.
It's usually forced upon them, right?
They don't enjoy it necessarily. And
usually the child sacrifice was
occurring.
>> But if there's consensus, what grounds
would you oppose the consensus? what
makes the state work best for most of
the people.
>> Yeah. And most people have now given you
consensus that this is working best for
us.
>> They you can't give consensus that this
is working for us. We actually have to
look at like material like outcomes,
right? So for example, how we know that
America's law system works pretty well
although there are problems is the fact
that our military is the strongest, we
have the most amount of scientific
output, which is awesome, right? That we
are the number one currency in the
world, the largest like thing. So we
know okay the system that we centrally
kind of erected around for the most part
works pretty well. It's a pretty
competitive system.
>> Okay. But that's post hawk. Does do you
agree with me that it takes time for you
to gather data on a system which is
implemented?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So for
years so for 5 years we have a consensus
that we kill every third baby and the
people go along with it and they adore
it. They think it's great. We don't have
the data to show them how wrongheaded
they are yet.
>> I don't think that would emerge. So,
okay. But it has emerged.
>> I I think it's
>> But it has not. No, it has not.
>> Yes, it definitely has. There's
definitely been many nations where they
kill their children, including China.
So, I don't know what you're talking
about,
>> but it didn't work. In fact, one of the
>> Yeah, it you that's post hawk. That's
you post hawking. It didn't work after
the fact. We're talking about in the
fact that's how you develop state
>> in the fact though.
>> In when it's happening.
>> Yeah.
>> What are you appealing to to oppose it?
>> Me personally.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, me personally. Well, I would define
command theorist. I would say that
murdering babies is wrong.
>> Okay. Gotcha.
>> Yeah.
>> So, the consensus would be wrong.
>> Uh against my morals. Yeah.
>> Okay. So, you hold so you hold a form of
dualism.
>> Uh no, this is would be relativism.
>> Well, d Well, not really.
>> It's not relativism. It's relativistic
is probably the better.
>> Relativistic perhaps, but it's this
sounds like dual ethics.
>> No, it's just relativist. relativistic.
>> Well, why is consensus
>> good?
>> It's not ontologically good.
>> Okay, good. So,
>> I think it makes the most I think for
the most part Well, I can answer you.
>> All right,
>> breathe. You're going to be okay. So,
for the most part, I think that for
example, consensus is good because it's
worked. I think it's worked in so far as
America mostly has a democratic
consensus type system, which has worked
pretty damn well. I think the world
outside is pretty good. There are a lot
of problems that people will point to,
but I think America overall is a pretty
good nation. I think most western
liberal democracies are better than
we've ever developed any at any time in
history.
>> So the grounds that you would oppose a
consensus of killing every third baby
would be Christian ethics, right?
>> Well, it would probably be multiple
things. Yeah. That I would appeal to.
Like I would use multiple evidences for
it.
>> Well,
>> the reason I personally wouldn't kill
babies is because I think it's wrong to
murder babies.
>> Okay. Gotcha.
>> Do you think it's wrong to murder
babies?
>> But if there was a consensus Well, yeah,
of course. But if there was a consensus,
you said that's the thing that we should
run things by is by consensus.
>> That might become state law. But I'm
saying to you a I think that would fall
out of state law very quickly and I
would probably be a person who would
advocate strongly against that state law
because not all state laws are moral
>> based on your morality
>> to some degree. But I wouldn't be
imposing my morality on
>> What if the consensus is that you're not
allowed to oppose the consensus?
>> Like an authoritarian regime?
>> Well, no, that wouldn't be
authoritarian. That would be democratic.
Uh, how so?
>> Because you can democratically vote in
laws which are oppressive.
>> Sorry. So I I feel like you're just
making something into democracy that
doesn't exist. Could you explain it
more?
>> Yeah. If everybody votes tomorrow in a
democracy that Kyla can never say
another [__] word or else I don't
know, she gets beat to death with a
rock.
>> I would have due process.
>> Okay. Well, the thing is
>> and I could argue free speech that
violates my amendment.
>> Hang on. You didn't say due process. You
said consensus is how we should rule.
>> Consensus is typically how we select for
like electoral people and then electoral
people are hopefully although not always
supposed to be educated in such a way
that they can make state craft policies
that brings about most good for citizens
because I don't think state craft is in
and of itself moral.
>> Okay. So we're not actually appealing to
consensus for how we should run things
then.
>> Well to some degree because the
stakeholder is the voter. So to some
degree you have to appeal to what
stakeholders believe. What's preventing
what's preventing voters in a liberal
democracy from voting in laws which go
against your morals?
>> Well, I would basically I would argue
that God puts like a sense of conscious
within each of us. And I don't think
that almost anyone actually emerges in
such a way that they say it's good to
kill babies. I think for example, pagan
institutions did erect very historically
and you will notice that they don't
exist anymore because they don't work
very well and people don't like them.
And I also would argue that they were
moral at the time, right? And so in the
case of state craft, we would use
consensus to vote in elected
representatives and these elected
representatives would impose laws. But
if we don't agree with those laws, then
we can oust that person.
>> That's not my question. My question is
what actually prevents inside of a
liberal society from people utilizing
consensus in order to pass laws which
are immoral
>> from your view?
>> Immoral from my view? Yeah.
>> Nothing. But I don't think that every
Wait, I don't think that all of my moral
system should be rule of law.
>> I understand.
>> Do you think that
>> all I'm doing is is making sure that I
get the that I get it right.
>> Can I ask you a question?
>> Yes.
>> Do you think that
>> Before you do, I'm going to interrogate
the position, then you can interrogate
mine.
>> I would just like to have some back and
forth.
>> That's the fair way to do it. But the
problem is is you just divert.
>> Wait, no. That's the first conversation
we had, the first like segment.
>> I don't care about the meta. Just let me
finish the interrogation dropping the
meta because you're doing some you're
doing like I want How's it bad faith to
want to interrogate
>> I haven't said you can interrogate my
position. I said can you wait for a
second so I can ask you some questions
because in the case I was interrogating
your worldview with the first prompt. I
also allowed you to interrogate my
worldview in return.
>> Let's let me do the interrogation first
and then you can do your second.
>> Okay. So do you think that we should
>> No. No. I said let me do my
interrogation first. You can do your
second. I'm saying I would like a back
and forth.
>> But all that does is derail from the
questions I have.
>> Uh derails from the dunk that you're
trying to lead me into. I understand
that it does that. Well, because what
you're trying to do is to get to some
foundational thing of being like, see,
it's born on nothing. It's like, okay,
Andrew, that's what's bad faith.
>> Do you want to just not allowing your
position,
>> everyone knows that this is what's
happening?
>> Wait, you're So you're saying that your
position when it's interrogated
foundation is going to be incoherent? I
would say every single foundation of any
worldview normative or meta ethics is
unjustifiable. Yes. This is what axioms
are.
>> Oh, really?
>> They all fail a grip trila. Yes.
>> Because because of a gria's trilmma.
>> How do you not feel a gria's trilmma?
>> Oh man, that's really weird. What? Tell
me again. What does a grippa trillemma
say?
>> It's dogmatism. All all justification
systems fail at a foundational level
because they will fail in one of three
ways or all of three ways. Dogmatism,
infinite regression, and circular
reasoning.
>> Is that position justified? No.
>> Okay. So, anyway, back to this.
>> Wait, so you run away from a gri
>> Okay, you know what?
>> I ran I ran away from it.
>> Yeah.
>> You just said that a grippa's trilmma is
not a justified position.
>> Well, what do you mean by justified?
>> Well, whatever you mean by it in a
grippa's trilmma.
>> Well, it's a it's an internal critique
of justification systems. A grippa, what
do you mean is a grippa trillemma
unjustified? It is a philosophical tool
that we can utilize to understand that
at a foundational level, no belief
systems. How do you solve a grippers
truth?
>> How do you solve a grius
>> dilemma? Well, it's self-refuting. This
has been known for a thousand years. I
don't know if you know this or not. It's
a self-refuting. A grippers trilm
self-refuting. If
>> so, how do you not engage in dogmatism?
>> If all things are axiomatic, right?
Assume
>> the reduction to a aimatic. Are we
making a truth claim?
>> Uh, you are making a truth claim.
>> Okay. And is that truth claim justified?
>> No.
>> Yeah, cuz you assume. Wait, are you not
making a truth claim?
>> It doesn't matter.
>> Of course it does. Are you not making
truth claims?
>> Oh, wait a second.
>> Does your moral system not utilize truth
claims?
>> Did you posit an argument to me?
>> Which was a Grippa's trilmma?
>> Yep.
>> And was that argument justified?
>> Uh, no.
>> No. More than any Wait, is your
arguments justified?
>> That what does that have to do with you?
>> I'm internally critiquing you this.
>> You can internally critique me with your
argument.
>> How are you not? Yeah. So, I said, "How
do you not fail a Grippa's trillemma?"
And you said, "A Grippa's trilmma
doesn't matter." That's not how you
solve a say it doesn't matter. He said
it's unjustified.
>> Well, it's self-refuting.
>> How is it self-refuting?
>> Because if you claim that there you're
you're making a truth claim that's
unjustified, then you're not making a
truth claim.
>> Sure, you are. You're just assuming a
grim I guess engages in dogmatism.
>> It's not justified.
>> Yeah. So, a grippers trilem, I suppose,
engages in dogmatism itself. But how is
it self-refuting?
>> You just explained it.
>> Every single system is self-refuting
them by this law.
>> Is that a truth claim?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Okay. And does that fail because
of a Grippa's trilmma? So, should I take
anything you say seriously? Because
>> give me give me a single truth.
>> I don't have to make your argument.
>> I was going to run from this one again.
Watch. Give me a single truth claim that
doesn't fail a Gria's trilmma. Go.
>> Okay. First of all, back up. Whose
argument is this?
>> Give me a single truth claim that
doesn't frier dilemma. I knew you were
going to weasel in this one. I'm just
going to stay here.
>> Okay, stay here. Whose argument is it
>> right now? Both of us. We're both Wait a
second.
>> Are we both having a conversation? You
didn't argue that a grippa triilma is
true. You did.
>> I said it's true in like an assumed way
in the way that all things are assumed.
>> And actually,
>> so is it true or not?
>> Uh, it's true in like a I suppose like
Yeah. True in the way that we mean true
for everything else that's true.
>> What does that mean?
>> Well, give me an example.
>> Yeah, it's not my argument. You don't
get to interrogate me for your argument.
>> No, no. I'm asking you for a
counterfactual to prove your
>> I don't need to. It's your argument.
>> My argument is nothing is nothing is
this thing you're saying. Can you
provide me a counter?
>> So nothing's true.
>> I didn't say nothing's true. I said
truths are true.
>> Truths are assumed.
>> Tautologies.
>> Truths are assumed. Tautology.
>> Do you know? Yeah. No. Truths are
assumed. They're tautologies.
>> Truths are tautologies
>> oftentimes at a foundational level.
Yeah.
>> Often or are
>> R. So is a grippa trillemma a truth
tutology?
>> It's not an axiom. It's a philosophical
system and it's a philosophical like uh
equation how you test your own thinking.
So how do you
>> and so okay I'm super confused.
>> Give me a truth claim that doesn't solve
>> you don't have to make your argument.
>> This isn't my argument. My argument is
all arguments foundationally will fail a
grip trma.
>> Okay. So you are making an argument.
>> You're saying that's not true.
>> I didn't say anything like that. I asked
you how it was true.
>> Wait. So you're agreeing with me that no
truth claim.
>> I didn't agree with anything.
>> So you have those are the options.
>> I don't have to do anything. You're
making an argument.
>> Yes. You could be a coward and you could
run away.
>> Cowardice. You posit that there's that
grippa trillemma is true.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> And I'm saying that's assumed because
all things are at a foundational level
are assumed. And I said can you give me
an example where true?
>> Yeah. God is dogmatism.
>> Okay. So you think
>> assuming God exists.
>> So when I ask you does god exist and you
say yes that's not true.
>> It's true and I'm assuming it.
>> How is it true?
>> Uh it's true because I believe it's
true.
>> I'm a divine command theorist.
>> So okay. So I just want to make sure I
got this right.
>> How do you
He's just going to run away from us.
>> When you when you pause it, well, you
>> you have to pay like 10 bucks to force
this question.
>> How do you posit the arguments and then
I I have to answer to the argument.
>> So, if I pose an argument and I give you
the justification for my argument and it
seems like the way that you're acting is
that you think that that is incorrect,
then you have to pose me a counter. So,
I said, if I'm wrong, Andrew, you can
just prove me wrong like that. Find me a
truth claim that isn't fundamentally
unjustifiable. Go ahead. How do you find
me one truth that doesn't fail?
>> First of all,
>> who posits a Grippa's trillemma is true?
Andrew or or Aerodite?
>> A Gria's trilmma uh isn't it? This is
like this is like saying Uthifro
Uthifro's dilemma is true. Is Uthifro's
dilemma true?
>> Okay. Again, you Why are you asking me
questions about your argument?
>> Because what you're doing I think you're
I can't tell I can't tell if you
genuinely don't understand a Grippa's
trilmma maybe or if you're being bad
faith. Those are the only two. How am I
being bad faith when you pause an
argument and I ask you about it?
>> Relax, Andrew. I said there's two
options. You genuinely don't understand
or you're being bad faith.
>> Well, there's a third option, which is
maybe you don't understand.
>> I do understand how dilemmas work in
philos.
>> Okay, then let's
>> are trolley problems true.
>> If a grippa's trilmma
>> is like a trolley problem.
>> Yeah. I'm just want to make sure a grip
>> it's a philosophical test of logic.
>> Okay, I got it. So, when you're talking
about agria's trilmma, would you have a
any criticisms for your for this
argument that you're making?
>> I I can't solve it. That's the that's
the point of the dilemma.
>> Okay. So when you say that the when I
ask you is a Gria's trima true
>> I can't solve it.
>> Is it true though?
>> Is a trolley problem true? Is the fro's
dilemma true? What are we doing right
now?
>> Yeah. I think I think philosophically
you can you can say that the conclusion
is true or false?
>> No. No. A grippa's trilmma isn't a
conclusion. A grippa's trilmma is a
problem. It's a philosophical problem.
Is Uthifro's dilemma true?
>> Wait wait wait. I'm not talking about
I'm talking about a grippa trillemma.
Yeah, it's a problem in the same way
that you Utherfro's dilemma is.
>> Okay. So, walk me true.
>> Walk me through a Grippa's dile dilemma.
I'll make sure I understand it.
>> Okay. Grippa's trima posits that no
beliefs are justifiable foundationally
because they will fail one of three
ways. Dogmatism, infinite regression, or
circularity. And I'm saying, can you
find me an example of a truth claim that
doesn't fail a grip?
>> That sounds like that sounds to me like
you're positing propositions in a
conclusion. I'm giving you something
similar to like a euthiferro dilemma or
a trolley problem to see if you can
solve it logically.
>> Yeah. Yeah. But that has nothing to do
with with a grippa's trilmma which we're
talking about. So
>> it has everything to do with trma
because you're asking if it's true which
is like asking me if trolley problems.
>> No, it's not.
>> Are trolley problems true?
>> If it's a if it's propositional, this
sounds like propositional logic to me.
You're actually giving me premises and a
conclusion. Is the conclusion true?
>> This is not what's happening. It's a
dilemma. Is the Euthifro dilemma true?
>> Well, that's a that's a whole different
thing. These are onetoone comparison.
This is the comparison I'm trying to
make because I feel like you're not
understanding what a dilemma is.
>> Write it out for me.
>> I I don't need to. Do you Wait, how do
you solve youthro dilemma or do you
think
>> right now I just want it written out so
I can see if this is a non-propositional
problem.
>> Okay. I'm just going to write out what
I've said.
>> Okay.
All foundational
beliefs.
Um,
>> private chat, Nathan, if you want to
pull that up.
>> Viable. Yeah. Get get the TTS in here.
Make Brian some money. Okay.
>> Oh, no. I was going to pull up a
Grippa's trilmma.
>> Oh, so it's on screen
>> so people know what the heck you guys
are talking about. Uh, go F11 with it.
Nathan, do you have it?
>> Uh, okay. Can you It also goes by
Munchhousen Trillemma. Uh, I guess
>> uh I would I would just look up specific
Grio's trilmma.
>> Well, scroll down.
>> Just finish it while writing it. I want
to see if it's proper.
>> Scroll down. Yeah, continue. Continue on
though. Go ahead. Scroll down.
>> Uh, keep going.
It says the name. Scroll down.
It says so Munchhousen trillemma is also
known as agria's trillemma. So I guess
it's just a different name for it.
Scroll back up.
>> Yes. So I'll read this here. Keep
working on this. But the circular
argument in which the proof of some
proposition presupposes the truth of
that very proposition. The regressive
argument in which each proof requires a
further proof add infinitum. The
dogmatic argument which rests on
accepted precepts which are merely
asserted rather than defended.
>> The trillemma then is having to choose
one of the three equally unsatisfying
options.
>> Hopefully you can read that.
>> Sorry if you can't just tell me if you
need me to rewrite something.
>> Uh circular argument, infinite
regression or dogmatism. So then you
believe in objective truth, right?
>> Uh I believe in objective morals. Yeah.
And like uh scientific realism.
>> Are they objectively true?
uh morals. Well, objectively like they
exist outside of me.
>> Is that true?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. What makes it true?
>> I'm assuming.
>> So, is everything you assume true?
>> No. But everything I assume is true cuz
I'm really good at philosophy.
>> How do you solve All I'm asking
>> has nothing to do with me.
>> It does.
>> You can't. You don't believe.
>> So, here's what's happening. It doesn't.
How do you solve Euththero's dilemma?
>> Why does that Why do I need to solve
your problem? Because if I'm posing
youthro's dilemma, a philosophical
problem, you can't go is the problem
true. That's not that's
>> I'm not even asking about that. That's
sidestepping the conversation.
>> If you if you believe that this is
correct and you also believe that
objective morality is correct.
>> Yeah. Correct. Correct in the way that
we're assuming a grippers. Correct in
the way that like trolley problems are
good at testing.
>> So we're just both making assumptions
about everything.
>> Everyone is well that or you're
infinitely regressing. Those are your
two Well, there's your circular
reasoning which is just tautology. So
everyone's kind of doing tautology.
>> So we're just assuming God.
>> Yeah, of course.
>> Okay.
>> How do you how are you not?
>> So all these things, all of these things
in philosophy are just going down to
these three categories for you.
>> No, not these. These aren't categories.
These are ways in which you're facious.
Your thinking is facious. So it's saying
all beliefs, all meta ethics, normative
frameworks are fundamentally
unjustifiable
>> because they can't solve for one of
these three things. Thank you.
>> I see.
>> And I'm asking you how do you solve for
that?
>> I can't. I'm going to adopt it. He's
like, "Euthther's dilemma. I don't know.
Can't find an answer."
>> No, no, no. I'm going to adopt it.
You're right.
>> I'm just going to every I'm just going
to assume everything's true because I
assume it.
>> That's That's fine. But now
>> that's what you said.
>> Now you're in line with like So this is
one of your issues.
>> That's what you said.
>> Yeah. Yeah. No, that's fine. Welcome to
my world. Okay. Yeah, I'm in your world.
>> We're based over here. Okay. The issue
is that I wouldn't go to secular people
and be like, "You don't have a moral
ethical system because it's
unjustifiable." Because I already know
that mine's unjustifiable. I'm assuming
I'm doing dogmatism and they're doing
usually infinite regression
>> or they're being cowards and they're
being like I don't know.
>> So then you can't make a justification
for why I shouldn't like pull out a
machine gun and kill everybody.
>> This these are not the same thing you
Yeah. So when I'm talking about
foundational beliefs
>> Yeah.
>> pop quiz. What's foundational? Do you
know what foundationalism is?
>> Yeah. The it's going to be the pillar in
which a belief stands on.
>> Yeah. Okay. So not all statements or
beliefs pop. You're welcome. Well, I
don't actually do pop quizzes. I usually
ask your whole debate style, but go
ahead.
>> It's not me knowing more information
than you is not like some some some
crazy like maniacal tactic. And
>> when we get to the point where you do,
>> this is the issue, Andrew, is it speaks
to your insecurity that when I ask you
questions about whether or not you know
something, I'm asking in genuine good
faith because they're like esoteric and
I don't expect people to know them. But
you take it as an insult to like your
pride or something like that. Of course,
because you think I'm doing something
like maniacal when it's like me asking
you, "Do you know what a grippers trilma
is?" isn't to say, "Huh, idiot. You
don't know anything about griosph."
It's for me to go, "Okay, if you don't,
let me explain it to you and then I'm
curious how you would reason through
it."
>> Yeah. I would just reason that I'll
adopt it and anybody that I decide to
impose my will on can't actually say
that I'm unjustified.
>> Of course you can.
>> How?
>> Well, you wouldn't say that your
foundations are unjustified, but they
would say, for example, here's a list of
evidences and arguments as to why I
don't think
>> Yeah, but none of those are justified.
They're all
>> built off of tutologies.
>> So what? Everything's built off of
>> there's no justification. Tell me you
can't do anything.
>> Wait, do you think math doesn't exist?
Because
>> what does that have to do with what
we're talking about?
>> Math is tautological.
>> Oh my god.
>> Wait, do you not know that?
>> What is the just time? Do you know that
math is how can you tell me? You see
what I mean? Pop quiz.
>> Well, I'm doing it now cuz you're just
being ridiculous.
>> Squirrel brain. Can you tell me
>> I'm pretty focused. Can you tell me tell
me how it is then that you can create
any justifications that anybody's ever
doing anything wrong?
>> Logic and reason. You build on top of
like tautological axioms that seem
reasonable based on kind of assumptions
but they seem reasonable and you build
upon an entire structural of world
belief which is what
>> none of them are justified
>> at a foundational level. No, all beliefs
are unjustifiable.
>> Well then you you don't
>> how do you solve dogmatism when you just
told me then that I can't go to secular
people and tell them that their beliefs
are unjustified.
>> You can't and be co and be consistent.
>> So then we should just throw philosophy
out.
>> No.
>> Why not? It's not justified
>> uh at a rational level. It's just a
tautology that we make up
>> because people accept tautologies
because that's how you think about the
world, right? Like math, we just accept
tautologies in math. We have to because
you have no starting point if you don't.
So we assume these things and then we
build on top of them and then the beauty
of things like math and science in the
case of like um you know science realism
is you can use math and these things to
observe and test and see if you're
actually mapping onto the correctness of
the world.
>> I see. Yeah. So then if I inductive and
>> So then if I utilize the assumption that
God is real, this would dogmatism. Yeah.
>> Yeah. This would satisfy you because you
also use the assumption that God is
real.
>> I'll just grant it. Of course I always.
>> So then if that's if that's the case and
we assume that God's real and then we
assume God's commands and then we build
our case off of that. Yeah.
>> That that's justified as justified as
something can be.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Well then I don't know what we're
arguing about. We'll just do that.